RSync
#####

The server can be configured to act as a client to pull and push data to remote
locations as well as act an RSync daemon server, where other clients can
retrieve or store data from/to the server. In RSync languague, the shared
folders are called modules. Since |omv| version 3.0 is possible now to create
remote RSync jobs using ssh as transport shell.
The RSync is divided in two tabs:

.. _admin_rsync_jobs_client:

Jobs (client)
-------------

Based on cron, the tasks can be configured to run at certain time or make it
repetive. A few of the options explained:

Type
	- Local: This will run an RSync in between two internal folders of the
	  server. For example you can use this to move data across different disks
	  in your system
	- Remote: This will deactivate destination folder, and instead you'll need
	  to place a destination server address. You can select here:

		Mode (remote)
			- Push: store contents to a remote server
			- Pull: Retrieve contents from a remote server

	Selecting one or the other will invert the folder as source or destination,
	the same as the server address.

Destination/Source Shared Folder
	Choose a shared folder where you want the contents to be stored (pull) or
	you want the contents from that folder to be sent to a remote server (push).

Destination/Source Server
	You need to put address server host or ip.

	Examples:

	If you are targeting the job against an RSync daemon server::

		rsync://10.10.10.12/ModuleName
		username@10.10.10.12::ModuleName
		rsync://username@10.10.10.12:873/ModuleName

	If you are going to connect to another server just using SSH with
	public key::

		username@10.10.0.12:/srv/dev-disk-by-label-VOLUME1/Documents

.. warning::
	When the RSync task is configured using ssh with PKA, the script that runs
	the jobs is non-interactive, this means there cannot be a neither a
	passphrase for the private key or a login password. Make sure your
	private is not created with a password (in case is imported). Also make
	sure the remote server can accept PKA and not enforce password login.

**Authentication (remote)**

	- **Password**: For the remote RSync daemon module. Is not the username
	  login password defined in the Rights Management section of the server.
	  Read ahead in server tab.
	- **Public Key**: Select a key. These are created/imported from
	  ``General | Certificates | SSH`` :ref:`section <admin_certificate_ssh>`.

There are options are available which are the most commonly used in RSync.
At the end there is an extra text field where you add more
`options <http://linux.die.net/man/1/rsync>`_.

Configuration
	|omv| makes the tasks run by placing them in
	:file:`/etc/cron.d/openmediavault-rsync` one line per job. The
	cron time at the beginning, then user (root) and the target file that holds
	the actual RSync file with the final command, is configured in the same way as 
	:doc:`scheduled tasks </administration/general/cron>` The files are stored in
	:file:`/var/lib/openmediavault/cron.d/`, prefixed with :code:`rsync` and a
	:code:`<uuid>`. A default SSH RSync job looks like this:

.. code-block:: shell

	#!/bin/sh
	# This configuration file is auto-generated.
	# WARNING: Do not edit this file, your changes will be lost.
	. /usr/share/openmediavault/scripts/helper-functions
	cleanup() {
	  omv_kill_children $$
	  rm -f /var/run/rsync-05260f23-5098-4f07-9250-0b38b923ac7f
	  exit
	}
	[ -e /var/run/rsync-05260f23-5098-4f07-9250-0b38b923ac7f ] && exit 1
	if ! omv_is_mounted "/srv/dev-disk-by-label-VOLUME1/" ; then
	    omv_error "Source storage device not mounted at </srv/dev-disk-by-label-VOLUME1>!"
	    exit 1
	fi
	trap cleanup 0 1 2 5 15
	touch /var/run/rsync-05260f23-5098-4f07-9250-0b38b923ac7f
	omv_log "Please wait, syncing </srv/dev-disk-by-label-VOLUME1/backupdir/> to <username@backupserver.com:/opt/backup> ...\n"
	eval $(ssh-agent) >/dev/null
	ssh-add /etc/ssh/openmediavault-484a6837-5170-468c-aa8f-0e3cb92a641e >/dev/null
	rsync --verbose --log-file="/var/log/rsync.log" --rsh "ssh -p 22" --recursive --times --archive --perms '/srv/dev-disk-by-label-VOLUME1/backupdir/' 'username@backupserver.com:/opt/backup' & wait $!
	omv_log "\nThe synchronisation has completed successfully."

Server
------

This is the place for configuring the RSync daemon and it's modules
(shared folder).

Settings
	Change listening port of the daemon and add extra configurations
	`directives <https://www.samba.org/ftp/rsync/rsyncd.conf.html>`_
	text field.

Modules
	This is where you add shared folders to be available to the daemon. The
	options are explained in the module web panel. If you want to protect the
	modules you can select the next tab and choose a server username and
	establish a password. Be aware the password is only for the modules, is
	not the linux password. Documentation for the extra options for the
	modules is provided by rsyncd manual.

The above server settings are sent to this file :file:`/etc/rsyncd.conf`.
